So recently I went on Popcast, which is
the New York Times show about pop
culture and music criticism and many
things besides. And I was there to
answer what is probably the most
important cultural question of 2025
raised by everything from Taylor Swift's
reactionary new album to Sydney Sweeny's
entire career. Namely, can a celebrity
be a Republican? And my answer was even
now, not if they know what's good for
them.
>> Is there a way that you see the right
trying to build on its currency in
popular culture right now? Like what do
Trump, NBA Young Boy, and Sydney Sweeney
have in common? Like, is that a
coalition that can hold?
I mean, that might be a coalition that
can hold, but then the Republican party
is also the party of
boring white suburban married like like
that. That is the the weird thing about
the Republican party under Trump is that
it just it became a coalition of people
fed up with progressive culture for
completely different reasons, right? A
culture of conservative normies and the
transgressive. And so it makes sense
that once you once your coalition is a
place of transgression and the other
coalition has no room for transgression,
you're going to get people in culture,
in art who are pulled who were pulled
towards your coalition.
I yeah I still so I mean maybe I'm hung
up again as someone sort of from an
earlier era on the idea that like the
way you get politics in pop culture is
the sort of expression of certain
pieties by a prominent movie star and I
still think we're infinitely far away
from a prominent movie star saying like
I believe I'm pro-life and I believe in
limited government the way prominent the
way prominent celebrities would say
>> no Sydney Sweeney is not
>> environment. support, you know, the
environment and and no person is illegal
or something, right?
>> I don't think anybody's going to come
out for deregulation. Like, I don't
think so.
>> Okay. So, that's and and but then it's
like, all right. So, but so you have
this transgressive space. How stable is
that transgressive space? Does it I I
think there's a scenario where that
transgressive space persists but
depoliticizes a little bit after Trump.
So whether it's Vance or someone else,
you get, you know, you get a kind of
reversion to the Republican mean. And
then you have a lot of people out there
who still no longer want to identify
with whatever progressivism is, want to
be seen as sort of outside the lines of
official liberal decency, whatever that
means. But they're not going to identify
with Ronda like in a world where Ronda
Santis or Marco Rubio or someone else
like that was the Republican nominee for
president. You're not nobody's going to
be like, "Oh, why won't Sydney Sweeney
say she's voting for Ronda Santis?" And
no, certainly no one's going to do a rap
tour about about Ron.
>> I I don't know who Dantis is going to
pardon. We don't know about that. But
but you mean
>> it isn't just the like so the pardons
are the transactional side, right? But
but Trump has always, first of all, he's
always had some subset of, you know,
sort of people in African-American pop
culture, Don King, like these kind of
people who he was friendly with, right?
Great story in Vibe magazine in 1997 or
1998.
>> Trump has always just had a celebrity
identity. So I yeah, I just don't know
what the kind of sort of equivalent of
that explicitly right-wing energy is
after him. Now maybe it's in, you know,
maybe there's something in religion and
religious art, right? like the you know
that that makes a comeback or be not
even one of the most beloved albums of
the year the Roselia album Lux which we
discussed with her on this very show is
>> is explicitly
>> explicitly about female saintthood
>> right but it's no that's an example of
sort of and I think you will see more of
this a kind of
nonironic
portrayals of religiosity where the goal
is not the kind of Madonna like you know
I am using Catholic iconography in order
to support and construct it but sort of
more sinc I I I think I think you will
see more religious sincerity
>> in art and pop culture probably in this
environment than you would have 20 years
ago which is conservative coded in some
way
>> can I get back to the piety question
because you're talking about post Trump
you're talking about a vance or a D
Santis who obviously seem like
potentially a reversion to more
traditional conservative values and more
traditional expressions of political
conservatism and and presumably less
appealing to edge lordy people on the
internet presume despite
>> well the edge well edge lords are so so
there's a there's
>> you do have now something that that I
think will persist that didn't exist 15
or 20 years ago which is a kind of um
right-wing counterculture that has like
its own weird little literary factions.
It has, you know, like the dime square
scene in New York that I'm sure, you
know, no longer exists the way it did a
couple years ago. But like, you know,
that has Okay. All right. That but but a
a world
>> we still have to go out.
>> We still got to go somewhere.
>> Sorry. I mean, but a world that looks a
little bit I mean, part part of what
happened in all of Western culture is
that fascism and Nazi Germany sort of
completely culturally discredited
all forms of like edgy right-wing
aesthetic stuff. I think that's
>> and probably rightfully so.
>> I mean, not Yeah, they also did other
bad things, right? Besides
>> besides make art. Yeah.
>> Well, I mean, did it discredit I don't
know. Like, so if you go back to the
1920s and 1930s, you have a lot of like
high modernist literary figures who are
right-wing.
>> Sure.
>> Um, and by the time you get to like the
late 20th century western world, it's
it's very difficult to imagine that,
right, in in any serious numbers. You do
have like David Bowie has like a phase
of sort of like pretending to be
>> playing with fascist playing.
If you want to say that all extremes of
politics should be discredited by
totalitarian evil, then you can say it's
good that, you know, it's good that the
Nazis discredited right-wing extremist
literary figures and it would be good if
you know the legacy of Mao and Stalin
had discredited extreme left-wing
literary figures, which is not to say
that I'm here to tell you, oh, we need
to, you know, Ezra Ezra Pound was
totally misunderstood for his shilling
for
>> Musel. or something like you know to to
be clear like the you know the fascist
anti-semitic artists were bad but I I
guess I guess I would say like if you're
if you're entering an era of cultural
unsettlement you should expect some kind
of right-wing counterculture
>> and with the right as this place of
transgression I'm curious what you think
of
the consequences in so far as they exist
within the traditional spheres of major
label system, Hollywood studios, etc.
Which brings us to, you know, sort of
a relatively niche figure, but someone
who is touching a lot of the things that
we've been talking about, uh, for the
last 45 minutes, which is Dasha
Necrosova, uh, co-host of the very
popular, uh, Dime Square heterodox
cultural commentary show Red Scare. also
a you know aspiring actress has had
succession
materialists
>> uh small role materialists made a film
of her own about Jeffrey Epstein uh and
has now been quote unquote cancelled for
hosting Nick Fuentes, the Holocaust
denying white nationalist
uh internet celebrity on her on her
podcast um was, you know, reportedly
dropped from a film, dropped by her
agents, uh as part of a campaign, uh
which was reported, I believe, in in the
Hollywood Reporter, uh that there had
been an individual who had long kept up
with what she said and what others said
on her show, and that eventually it
culminated in her being stripped of
these opportunities. She appeared uh
over the weekend on uh Glenn Greenwald's
podcast on on Rumble saying that in fact
>> it's just one one podcast after another.
>> True.
>> She would basically said, "I'm surprised
this didn't happen to me earlier. I'm
already blacklisted. It's already hard
for me to find work."
>> I've already kind of been like um de
facto blacklisted and that's been made
clear to me,
>> you know, interviewing Alex Jones and
appearing with Steve Bannon uh over the
years, etc., etc. So I guess that
structure of pieties of of consequences
from the Hollywood studios remains
intact even though as Glenn Greenwald
said in his discussion with her they
felt like these days of cancellation
were over in the second Trump
administration.
>> Yeah. I mean Fuentes Fuentes has become
a test case more in politics than in
culture. I think everything but also in
culture, right?
>> And met Donald Trump with Kanye West. So
this is something that's been
percolating I think at the intersection
of culture and politics for years now.
>> Yeah. But in in politics, Fentes has
become the place of attempted attempted
line drawing.
>> You think like Hassan [__] and Zoran
Mani actually want to reappropriate the
wealth of like middle class white people
at gunpoint?
>> I do. Yeah. very very clearly there's a
sense of like okay we sort of the right
opened things up and the right became
kind of a menagerie of strange ideas and
right now you can find basically any
wild idea that a normal person 20 years
ago would have considered insane
somewhere in the right-wing ecosystem
and this has again as with art it has
both given the right a dynamism that I
assure you it did not have when Mitt
Romney was running for president. Right?
It is since Trump was elected in sort of
different ways, it has just become way
more interesting to be engaged in
right-wing political debates. Well, the
ultimate non-pious figure like that,
>> but but it but it has also obviously
like given platforms and audiences to
genuinely evil people with and so with
Fuentes it's like he's he's the place
where it's like okay you know this is a
guy who doesn't cross one line he
crosses you know every every available
line and he is sort of straightforwardly
straightforwardly toxic though also has
a kind of comedic
performance.
>> All of which he has in common with Kanye
West, which I think is interesting that
someone like NBA Young Boy, even someone
like Morgan Wallen and country music,
Jason Aldine, another, you know,
potentially controversial right-leaning
country singer, but and those people are
not only allowed,
>> but Jason Aldine, correct me if I'm
wrong, is not saying like, I'm here to
defeat world jewelry.
>> No, no, no, no. But he is Kanye. Kanye
is but Kanye is
>> but that's what I'm saying and that's
the line I'm drawing which is that much
like Fuentes Kanye was cast out uh it
you know even with the comedy even with
the decades of you know beloved work
that was where people drew the line much
like Nuentes while these other strain of
people that we've been discussing have
been allowed to continue and even be
embraced by a left-leaning audience
despite their sympathies for, you know,
ideas or people that might be seen as
evil by even a large portion of their
fan base.
>> One one thing there is just that you
have a more fluid cultural environment
and the guard rails move or the lines
move, but there are still going to be
some people who are outside them. So,
you have people who would have been
cancelled 5 years ago who don't get
cancelled. So it's like okay where are
you know where are the lines but we're
we're going to discover the point at
which people freak out and that point
right now is Nick Fentes. The other
thing though is that
>> you know Kanye West's career spirals
down
and so does his art to some I mean I'm
not like I don't have really strong
views on Kanye's music so I'm confirm
>> I'm just gonna follow right can confirm.
So that I mean that's always been part
of it like even you know you you've
always had figures who are sort of able
to navigate even constrained political
cultural environments while having utrey
opinions if they find a way to make art
that lots of people are interested in.
Nick Fentes is not I mean you could
argue his entire career is art. You
could say that, right? But ex explicitly
he is calling for a, you know, white
nationalist groper takeover of the
Republican party. That's what he's
doing. He's a political actor. So it's
not like you're like, well, you know, I
like, you know, I like the art from I
hate I hate Nick Fuentes's politics, but
I love his blue period or something. You
don't you don't
>> you don't have that. The other thing
that I wanted to note about the Red
Scare Fentus episode is I think what
happened on that interview is not
radically different than what's been
happening on Red Scare for many years
and the kind of dare I say overly
performed reaction to it and the sense
that this was the red line. It makes me
wonder if there's an implicit handshake
agreement among folks who are making
conservative or conservativeleaning
edgy content that it is theater first,
politics second, and that um all of this
conversation that we're having about
piety, part of being not pious is also
saying we know that we're playing a game
here and we're all sort of greasing each
other's wheels a little bit. I do think
though that there is a there's a big
difference between
saying offensive things to be offensive
and to shock people
and saying offensive things in the
context of claiming to have a concrete
agenda that involves a political
takeover. Um like
again like someone like Fuentes
whatever the performativity is what he
is performing is highly anti-semitic
racist
broadcaster
urging a particular politics of white
nationalism. That is, it seems to me,
quite different from, you know, we're on
this show and we want the freedom to
make a racist or anti-semitic joke,
right? But are they not unrelated
projects in the sense that yes,
obviously someone with a more explicit
focus on politics and legislation and
organizing may not be functioning on the
same level as someone who is trying to
uh manipulate and convince minds in a
social setting but are they not the same
project? I think that they're related in
the sense that if you have a world in
which people feel more comfortable
saying offensive things generally, then
that world will provide openings for
people who want to build a politics
around
around racism in its varied forms. at
the same time like to just to go back to
the examples of
comedians, right? Um someone like Dave
Chappelle built a long career sort of
saying offensive things around racial
issues and then became the guy who was
saying offensive things around
transgender issues, right? Um I think it
would be weird for me to say Dave
Chappelle and Nick Fuentes are engaged
in the same project. I don't think they
are. I think if you're like trying to
analyze what's happening in in culture,
you don't want to say
everyone who is everyone who's trying to
offend is also
ultimately doing the same thing as the
people who want a white nationalist
ethnostate.
>> Though though I would say there is a
direct line between offense,
dehumanization, and policy. And I think
that when you see political figures
engaging in, you know, JD Vance is
sometimes a Twitter comedian at this
point in addition to being the vice
president. You see a direct that is a
direct line in my mind.
>> That's the sweet spot for right-wing pop
culture is the do we mean this? Do we
not mean this? Is this political? Is it
ideological? That's why so many of these
shows are working. And that's why some
that's why there's allegiances,
alliances between people who are on
different sides of this. I
>> But wouldn't it be we I just I want to
stand this for a second. Wouldn't it be
like I I have lived lived in a mostly
left-wing and liberal popular culture
environment for a very long time. And
over the course of that lifetime, I have
seen beliefs that I hold sacred, a faith
that I belong to, all the rest held up
for mockery and ridicule and scorn on
many, many occasions, including the
Sydney Sweeney movie about the Catholic
Church, right? Um, I don't think it
makes sense for me to look at that stuff
and just say anyone who's like, I want
to have a lot of space to make fun of
the Catholic Church and make fun of
Christianity should be seen as like
we're all in the same project as people
who want to overtly persecute
Christians. If I did think that, I would
have a difficult time relating to pop
pop culture. And again, I I agree that
the more political the art is, the more
that it's like, hey, we're a far-right
podcast and we support Trump and we want
to board the build the wall or whatever
else. Yeah. What what the further you
go, the more you can say, okay, they and
Nick Fuentes exist on some sort of
continuum. But I also want to say we
should be protective of the, you know,
if the independence of art, the way the
South Park guys approach the Catholic
Church is often very funny and often
like presents the Catholic Church in
frameworks that if you applied it to
Judaism would be seen as like profoundly
anti-Semitic. It's like we're joking
about how the Catholic Church is a
global conspiracy, you know, to rape and
molest children. That's like a South
Park joke. And I can accept that. Like
this is a free society. The Catholic
Church did have a problem with sex
abuse. Like I can accept that. But I I
don't want to say like and we should be
analyzing all comedy in terms of like
its maximalist political
implications or interpretations because
I think that's a just a bad way to
experience people making fun of things
we hold dear. I do think there's a
blurry line though and that there are
people who have a symbiotic relationship
uh on either side of that line. I'm
thinking of, you know, I saw Shane
Gillis perform in Las Vegas this year.
Probably the most culturally relevant
thing I did all year. Uh and
>> apart from this podcast,
>> apart from this podcast and Tony
Hinchcliffe opened for him and Gillis
did a thing where he was very as he
always does, he's very careful to be
like, "Oh, you think I'm right? Well,
actually I'm left. Oh, you think I'm
left? Actually, I'm right. He's he he
has this down to an arc. He's like, for
everything he says, he swings both ways.
And then you have
>> Hinchcliffe come out, somebody who has
openly campaigned for Donald Trump ahead
of the election, most famously uh here
in Madison Square Garden. Uh and he's
doing a much different thing than Shane
Gillis is doing. Uh but they're but
they're working together. And again,
goes to these podcasters who are having
friendly chats with the candidate Donald
Trump ahead of the election. Like that's
a little different than Dave Chappelle
just wanting to make his jokes. And I
think everyone wins in that. And it sort
of helps that it takes a very very savvy
consumer to be able to tell the
difference between who is doing politics
and who is doing to John's point
theater. And also that, you know, Donald
Trump being the ultimate sort of fuzzy
character in this being as at home with
Aiden Ross as with Zoron Mumani.
>> Like if you look at someone like like
Mel Gibson, right, Mel Gibson is an
incredibly talented guy who has politics
extremely far outside the Hollywood
mainstream. politics and also morals and
right and he was able to navigate that
>> up to a point
>> while he was making
>> while he was making strong work great I
mean to my mind Passion of the Christ
and Apocalyptto back to back are just as
remarkable a pair of movies um and and I
say that like Passion of the Christ ab
like the people who said this movie
plays with anti-Semitic tropes were
right the movie does play with
anti-semitic tropes it's also
>> an incredibly powerful work of I'll take
uh Good Fellows and Last Temptation as
my pair
over those Scorsese and Gibson as
>> parallel Catholic artist responses to
culture.
>> We'll come on your show for that one. Um
but no, I think
>> Gibson crossed, you know, but he then he
was cancelled, but he also was
rehabilitated again because it be but
because of the work.
And I think that that's an interesting,
you know, I think I I've long liked to
say that all cancellations are
cumulative. And I mean that in the sense
of a lifetime of potentially small
infractions of moral or behavioral
things, but also in terms of the quality
of your work. It's a there's a reason
people go down at a moment when their
power when their when their cultural
capital dips. I think, you know, you
referred back to the Mitt Romney era. I
think Clint Eastwood is an interesting
example of this. Somebody who, you know,
spoke at the RNC, was sort of pillaried
and laughed at by Hollywood, pushed
aside, and then as a the politics got
more extreme, and b he had a late career
uh renaissance creatively was sort of
welcomed back in by the left-leaning
film bro contingent. He's he's you know
he's he's one of our guys again you know
quote unquote uh speaking general in in
the royal we and I think that you know
we're even seeing baby steps towards
something like that from Kanye West who
is you know recently been on an apology
tour reportedly uh appeared with a with
a with a notable with a notable rabbi
>> a rabbi a rabbi yes a rabbi who seems to
want to meet with rappers and and I
think that that could work if it comes
handinhand with
>> beautiful album
>> strong music and I think that
>> and this works the other way too right
to the extent that there is any kind of
right-wing cancelled culture now or sort
of attempts by Trump himself or anyone
else to kind of weaponize any advantage
that the right has in culture it I mean
one I think is just not that effective
and um or not that effective in the pop
cultural sphere I Uh even
>> you mean like canceling like trying to
get Kimmel fired or Seth Meers
>> right? But the people it work to the
extent that it makes any progress it has
worked against guys working in late
night comedy which is seen as sort of
you know a dinosaur in a dying industry.
Steven Colbear, his network was not
excited about what he was delivering for
him,
>> was able to say, "Look at all the money
we're losing."
>> Right? Whereas South Park can make fun
of Donald Trump till the cows come home
>> because it's bringing
>> because it's subscribers to
>> Paramount and no one no one in the White
House is like, "Oh, I bet if we brought
the hammer down, uh, you know, we could
get those South Park guys off the air."
Yeah. Right. To your point about South
Park and how they're able to get away
with everything they do because they're
winning so handily, I do wonder if part
of the thing that is holding back more
conservative pop culture in the
mainstream is the fact that there's just
less talent on the bench. You have
Donald Trump this year attempting to
assert himself in cultural institutions.
We alluded to this idea that he's going
to make Paramount/ Warner Brothers
remake Rush Hour. He also took over the
Kennedy Center and wants to make, you
know, the Honors thing something more
aligned with with his taste,
>> neocclassical architecture and uh but
yeah, and then you end up you end up
with George Strait and then a great
American artist. Just for the record,
sorry.
>> But then very quickly down from George
Strait, you have Kiss uh or Gloria
Gainor. people who are maybe don't have
the bonafides uh that some left-leaning
celebrities do. And we're seeing this
again. I think this is all going to come
to a head early next year at the Super
Bowl. Uh you have Bad Bunny scheduled to
perform. Bad Bunny, a Puerto Rican
rapper and singer who has been, you
know, o open,
>> very vocal,
>> vocal about his his political beliefs.
you know, says he isn't touring in
America for fear of Ice Raids uh on his
fans or or collaborators. And he's like,
"But the one US show I'm going to play
is going to be the biggest stage
available." On the flip side, you have
Turning Point USA saying, "Well, if
that's the guy who you're going to put
up there, somebody who's going to, you
know, potentially make an anti-Trump
statement on this large stage, we're
going to do our own thing. We're going
to plan our own show. are going to
counterprogram. And then the question
is, who do you have that can stand up
next to Bad Bunny? So, you know, I I
guess I wonder if uh if it's possible to
compete on that level if you just don't
have
>> Yeah. And and the answer is no. You
know, in a fragmented culture with sort
of the centers of cultural power
weakening, you're creating an
environment where there's going to be a
lot of artists who have unusual
political brands, no political brands at
all. Maybe at some point you'll get a
set of
important cultural figures who are
conservative coded. But it's like
>> for that to happen, the wheel would have
to turn. I think
>> it's a long journey
>> a few more times. Well, I mean, and and
art like like all these things, this is
it's an it's still institutional, right?
Like, yes,
>> you can be sort of a self-created figure
on the internet and that, you know,
>> that can get you so far.
>> That can get you so far. But I still
think the the institutions themselves
would have to be transformed before you
had a lot of celebrities who wanted to
take the risk of being fully identified
with with conservatism or
>> what if there were alternate
institutions like you know I thought
about this Turning Point USA question
alternate half show quite a bit.
What if they're calling Morgan Wallen?
Now we don't 100% know Morgan Wallen's
politics. We know obviously he had to go
through a cancellation for using a
racial.
>> Why would you want to be seen as the guy
I I guess
>> who's doing the lesser thing?
>> I guess I guess in the end like the the
right wins culturally if the Super Bowl
exists and it becomes normal to have an
artist playing halftime who's known for
having conservative politics. I feel
like if you're the artist and you're
doing the anti Super Bowl halftime show,
you are establishing that that one,
you're sort of self you're marginalizing
yourself and two, you are pushing the
world where you get to where you
actually get to play the halftime show
further further out. So if I was like
advising any really prominent singer
celebrity who had vaguely right of
center politics, I'd be like do not do,
you know, do not do the the show that is
organized to protest the Super Bowl
halftime Yeah.